.\" $Id: cpstats.1,v 1.3 2006/04/05 14:07:56 ucacpco Exp $

.TH cpstats 1

.SH NAME
cpstats \- Deprecated, use imagestats.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpstats 
\fB\-inputroot\fR \fI<root>\fR \fB\-operation\fR <\fImin\fR | \fImax\fR | \fImedian\fR |
\fImean\fR> \fB\-outputroot\fR \fI<root>\fR [\fB\-pd\fR <\fIp\fR>] [\fB\-targetindex\fR
<\fIindex\fR>]

.SH DESCRIPTION

This program performs simple voxelwise operations on a series of images. The min, max,
median, mean or sum in each voxel in the series of images is computed and written to a
single image.

This program and its wrappers will work with any scalar Analyze images, including
un-normalized streamline counts from \fBprocstreamlines\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES

Track from an ROI in the brain, defined by a seed image (see track(1)), and get the
maximum connection probability from any ROI seed to each voxel in the image.

cat A.inv1.watson.Bdouble | track -seedfile roi.hdr -watson | procstreamlines -seedfile
roi.hdr -outputcp -outputroot A_oneDT_

The seed file contains a single ROI, marked as voxels with value 1, so the input is
A_oneDT_watson_nonInt_1_[1...N]_1.hdr, where N is the number of seeds in the ROI. To find
the maximum connection probability from the ROI to any voxel, use cpstats:

cpstats -inputroot A_oneDT_watson_nonInt_1_ -operation max -outputroot maxroicp

This creates the Analyze image maxroicp.[hdr,img].

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-inputroot\fR <\fIroot\fR>
File root for the input. The input images must be in the same directory and be numbered.
The program will look for \fIroot\fR1_P.[img | img.gz], \fIroot\fR2_P.[img | img.gz],
until there are no more seeds. The index P is the principal direction that the
tractography follows at the seed point. The default is P=1 unless otherwise specified
with the \fB\-pd\fR option.

.TP
.B \-operation\fR <\fIoperation\fR>
The operation to perform. Either \fImin\fR for the minimum value in each voxel across all
images, \fImax\fR for the maximum, \fImean\fR, \fImedian\fR or \fIsum\fR.

 

.TP
.B \-outputroot\fR <\fIfile\fR>
File root for the output, in Analyze format. Defaults to the operation name, so if this
is not specified and the operation is max, then the output will be maxcp.[hdr,img]. For
legacy compatibility, the \fB-outputfile\fR option does the same thing as
\fB-outputroot\fR.

.TP
.B \-pd\fR <\fIp\fR>
Each principal direction in the seed ROI is given its own connection probability map by
\fBprocstreamlines\fR. This option tells \fBcpstats\fR over which PD to compute the
statistic. The default is 1. Older versions of Camino outputted connection probability
maps from \fBtrack\fR, and no PD was specified in the output file names. If no PD index
is detected in the input files, then this argument is ignored.

If this option is specified, then the tractography results for PD 1 must be present in
the same directory. For each volume corresponding to PD 1 that the program finds, it will
look for a volume for PD \fIp\fR.

.TP
.B \-targetindex\fR <\fIindex\fR>
Target connection probability images have an extra suffix (_0 or _1) to record whether
the image corresponds to tracking against or with a specified direction. The index 0 or 1
should be specified when computing statistics on target connection probability images.

.SH "AUTHORS"
Philip Cook <camino@cs.ucl.ac.uk>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
track(1), picopdfs(1)

.SH BUGS

cpstats is legacy code, it will only work on Analyze images. You can compute statistics
on a general set of images using \fBimagestats\fR.

When there are multiple principal directions in a voxel, the PDs 1 through N are not
ordered by Camino programs. For example, if an ROI is placed in a region where two fibre
bundles cross, then PD 1 at seed 1 may point along the same fibre bundle as PD 2 in seed
2. The only way to ensure that a PD index corresponds to the same fibre bundle across
multiple seeds is to visually inspect and order the connection probability maps.
