.\" $Id: fsl2scheme.1,v 1.3 2006/04/20 12:54:34 ucacdxa Exp $

.TH fsl2scheme 1

.SH NAME
fsl2scheme \- converts b-vectors and b-values from FSL format to a Camino scheme file. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsl2scheme 
\fB\-bvecfile\fR <\fIbvecs\fR> \fB\-bvalfile\fR <\fIbvals\fR> \fB\-diffusiontime\fR
<\fIsecs\fR>

 \fB\-bscale\fR <\fIfactor\fR> [-flipx] [-flipy] [-flipz] [-usegradmod]

.SH DESCRIPTION

This program reads gradient directions and b-values in FSL format and creates a Camino
scheme file.

The output is a BVECTOR scheme file:

 VERSION: BVECTOR
 g_x g_y g_z b
 ...
 g_x g_y g_z b

Note that the diffusion time is not stored here, only the b-values. One gradient vector
[g_x, g_y, g_z] is stored for each measurement, along with a b-value. These vectors will
be normalized to unity automatically for b > 0 measurements. If b = 0, the gradient
direction may be [0 0 0].

The b-values are scaled by default, to give units of s / m^2. The program assumes that
the b-values in FSL format are in units of s / mm^2, and scales by 10^6 to give s / m^2.
The scaling can be set to some other value with \fB-bscale\fR.

The b-values may additionally be scaled by the gradient direction magnitude. Some
scanners will factor the gradient magnitude into the b-value. If the gradient directions
have magnitude |g| = sqrt(g_x^2 + g_y^2 + g_z^2), and the nominal b-value is beta, then
the actual b-value is beta * |g|^2. To follow this convention, use the \fB-usegradmod\fR
option. The gradient directions will still be normalized to unity in the output, and the
b-value will be scaled appropriately.

These scheme files do not restrict the position of b=0 scans in the scheme, so there is
no need to re-order your data.

.SH EXAMPLES

   fsl2scheme -bvecfile bvecs -bvalfile bvals -diffusiontime 0.04 -version 0 > A.scheme

Create a version 2 scheme file, keeping b in native units.

   fsl2scheme -bvecfile bvecs -bvalfile bvals -bscale 1 > A.scheme2

Create a scheme file for a scan that is repeated twice

   fsl2scheme -bvecfile bvecs -bvalfile bvals -bscale 1 -numscans 2 > A.scheme

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-bvecfile\fR <\fIbvecs\fR> 
The file containing the b-vectors. This is a text file of format

 x(1) x(2)... x(N+M)
 y(1) y(2) ... y(N+M)
 z(1) z(2) ... z(N+M)

where the gradient direction for measurement (i) is [x(i), y(i), z(i)], and there are M
unweighted and N diffusion-weighted measurements.

.TP
.B \-bvalfile\fR <\fIbvals\fR>
The file containing the b-values. This is a text file of format

b(1) b(2) ... b(N+M)

where there are M unweighted (b = 0) and N diffusion-weighted measurements.

.TP
.B \-bscale\fR <\fIfactor\fR>
Scaling factor to convert the b-values into different units. Default is 10^6.

.TP
.B \-flipx\fR 
Negate the x component of all the vectors.

.TP
.B \-flipy\fR 
Negate the y component of all the vectors.

.TP
.B \-flipz\fR 
Negate the z component of all the vectors.

.TP
.B \-interleave\fR
Interleave repeated scans. Only used with \fB-numscans\fR. If this is selected, the
output will be interleaved, so you will have measurement 0 repeated numScans times, then
measurement 1, etc.

.TP
.B \-numscans\fR <\fInumber\fR>
Output all measurements \fInumber\fR times, used when combining multiple scans from the
same imaging session. The default behaviour is to repeat the entire block of
measurements, like you'd get from copying and pasting the scheme \fInumber\fR times. If
\fB-interleave\fR is specified, then identical measurements are grouped together.

.TP
.B \-usegradmod\fR 
Use the gradient magnitude to scale b. This option has no effect if your gradient
directions have unit magnitude. It should only be used if your scanner does not normalize
the gradient directions.

.SH "AUTHORS"
Philip Cook <camino@cs.ucl.ac.uk>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
camino(1)

.SH BUGS
